---
layout: post
title: Data Science and Statistics
---

Data has always been important in some fields, but in the past decade it’s become important to almost all disciplines in some way. Because of this, data science has become a term that encompasses a really wide range of jobs and specialties. This isn’t new, there are plenty of careers with nebulous titles like “analyst” or “consultant”, but perhaps the demand for a rigid definition of data science comes from the notion that data itself is rigid and well defined. 
The way I see data science is as an umbrella term for people with similar educational or experiential backgrounds who are then narrowed into many different specialties. For example, most of the articles we read were comparing data scientists versus statisticians or machine learning engineers, etc. Instead, I would consider all of those to be data scientists, but specializing in different fields within data science.
That said, there are some specific areas of knowledge that are necessary to be successful in data science. The trifecta of knowledge that seems to be repeated the most is mathematics, computer science, and domain expertise. I agree that data scientists need a solid base in all of those areas, but would also argue that one doesn’t need to be a master of all three to be successful. Just as data science doesn’t have one specific definition, the requirements for any one career in data science aren’t specifically defined. A person’s strengths and weaknesses in each of these areas will determine where they will be a good fit within the field of data science. 
It seems that data science and modern statistics (incorporating more computer based analysis) are quite similar, but there may be more of a gap between data science and classical or theoretical statistics. As a statistics student in 2020, it’s difficult for me to imagine a statistics education that doesn’t involve the use of computer software to solve some of the more complex problems. I agree with the piece that we read from Medium- that the fields are closely related and will likely converge over time. 
I’m honestly still unsure of my place within the field of data science. My math skills are strong, and I’m constantly working on my computer science knowledge. I’m intrigued by the prospect of being able to make predictions or solve problems through math. One of the benefits that I see in data science being an evolving and wide-ranging field is that those of us entering into it is that we will almost certainly find a career which utilizes our particular strengths and capabilities. 
